Polls 2023-05-12 (#2238)
makerdao/community: governance/polls/Onboard GNO to Spark Protocol - May 15, 2023.md

---
title: Onboard GNO to Spark Protocol - May 15, 2023

> summary: Onboard GNO (Gnosis) to Spark Protocol with included parameters. Reduce Maker GNO-A debt ceiling to zero.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Signal your support or opposition to onboarding GNO (Gnosis) to Spark Protocol with the following parameters.
```

Reviewer: Happy to also leave it as before if the DC change should feature in the summary.

Author: Yep, change here was intentional.

discussion_link: https://forum.makerdao.com/t/onboarding-of-gno-to-spark/20831
parameters:
    input_format: single-choice
    victory_conditions:
        - { type : plurality }
    result_display: single-vote-breakdown
version: v2.0.0
options:
   0: Abstain
   1: Yes
   2: No
start_date: 2023-05-15T16:00:00
end_date: 2023-05-18T16:00:00
---
# Poll: Onboard GNO to Spark Protocol - May 15, 2023

The Arbitration Facilitators have placed a Governance Poll into the voting system on behalf of Spark Protocol. This Governance [Poll](https://manual.makerdao.com/governance/governance-cycle/weekly-governance-cycle#weekly-governance-cycle-definitions-mip16c1) will be active for three days beginning on Monday, May 15 at 16:00 UTC.

**This is a binary vote.**
- **You may vote for a single option.**
- **You should vote for the option which you prefer.**
- **If you would accept either option, you should vote 'Abstain'.**

## Review

This poll allows the MakerDAO governance community to signal their support or opposition to adding GNO (Gnosis) to Spark Protocol.

### Spark Onboarding Parameters

**Token:** GNO  

> **Token Address:** 0x6810e776880C02933D47DB1b9fc05908e5386b96  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Token Address:** [0x6810e776880C02933D47DB1b9fc05908e5386b96](https://etherscan.io/address/0x6810e776880C02933D47DB1b9fc05908e5386b96)
```

**Oracle:** Maker Medianizer via adaptor  
**Oracle Provider:** Chronicle  
**Borrow Enabled:** No  
**Collateral Enabled:** Yes  
**[Isolation Mode](https://docs.sparkprotocol.io/developers/features/isolation-mode) Enabled:** Yes  

> **Isolation Mode Debt Ceiling:** 5 million USD  

Reviewer: Should this be DAI or USD?

Author: USD is correct. I checked with Sam.

> **Loan To Value:** 20%  

Reviewer: Does it make sense to link Aave documentation here e.g. https://docs.aave.com/risk/v/master/asset-risk/risk-parameters#loan-to-value? Same for those below

### Reduce GNO-A Debt Ceiling to Zero

In order to manage maximum total exposure to GNO (Gnosis), the GNO-A vault in the Maker Protocol will have its Debt Ceiling reduced to zero if this proposal passes. Rationale is provided [here](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/onboarding-of-gno-to-spark/20831/9) by the Decentralized Collateral Scope Facilitators.

## Outcomes

**If the votes for the 'Yes' option exceed the votes for the 'No' option then the following actions will be taken:**
* These changes will be actioned in a future executive vote as the technical resource schedule allows.
* It is expected that this executive vote will take place within 30 days of this poll passing, absent external factors.
* If the executive vote passes, then these changes will become active in Spark Protocol and the Maker Protocol after the [GSM Pause Delay](https://manual.makerdao.com/parameter-index/core/param-gsm-pause-delay) has expired.

**If the votes for the 'No' option equal or exceed the votes for the 'Yes' option then no further action will be taken at this time.**

---

## Resources

> Further information about Spark Protocol can be found at its [Documentation Hub](https://docs.sparkprotocol.io/hub/).

Reviewer: Potentially also Aave documentation if you think it makes sense - https://docs.aave.com
